.\"
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS 
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie the
.\" rights to redistribute these changes.
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	vmstat.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.2  91/08/29  16:08:37  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 	[91/08/19            rpd]
.\" 
.TH VMSTAT 1 6/18/90
.CM 4
.SH NAME
vmstat \- display Mach VM statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvmstat\fP [\fB-host\fP machine] [\fB-task\fP task] [\fB-dpager\fP pager] [interval]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIvmstat(1)\fR displays Mach Virtual Memory statistics.
If the optional \fIinterval\fR is specified, then \fIvmstat\fR
will display the statistics every \fIinterval\fR seconds.
In this case, each line of output displays the \fIchange\fR
in each statistic.  However, the first line of output following
each banner displays the system-wide totals for each statistic.
The following values are displayed:
.br
.IP "\fBfree\fR" 1.5i
The total number of free pages in the system
.IP "\fBactive\fR"
The total number of pages on the active list.  These pages are
currently in use and pageable.
.IP "\fBinactive\fR"
The total number of pages on the inactive list.  Like active pages,
these pages are currently in use and pageable, but they are considered
first for pageout.
.IP "\fBwired\fR"
The total number of pages wired down.
That is, pages that
can not be paged out.
.IP "\fBfaults\fR"
The number of times the "vm_fault_page" routine has been called.
.IP "\fBcopy\fR"
The number of faults that caused a page to be copied (generally
caused by copy-on-write faults).
.IP "\fBzeroed\fR"
The number of faults that caused a page to be zeroed (generally
caused by zero-fill faults).
.IP "\fBreactive\fR"
The number of pages that have been reclaimed from the inactive list.
.IP "\fBpageins\fR"
The number of requests for pages from a pager.
.IP "\fBpageouts\fR"
The number of pages that have been paged out.
.IP "\fBspace\fR"
The amount of free backing store available to the default pager.
.br
.PP
If \fIinterval\fR is not specified, then \fIvmstat\fR displays all
accumulated statistics along with the page size, object cache
performance, and size of the default pager's backing store.
.PP
\fIvmstat\fP interprets the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-host \fImachine\fR
Directs the inquiry to the \fImachid(1)\fR server running
on the specified machine.
.TP 8
.B \-task \fItask\fR
Explicitly specifies the MachID of the task port to which vm_statistics(2)
calls are directed.  This defaults to the first task on the specified
host.
.TP 8
.B \-dpager \fIdefault-pager\fR
Explicitly specifies the MachID of the default pager port to which
default_pager_info(2) calls are directed.  This defaults to the
default pager on the specified host.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ms(1), machid(1), vm_statistics(2), default_pager_info(2)
