.\"
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS 
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie the
.\" rights to redistribute these changes.
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	stacks.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.3  91/03/19  12:32:33  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/11/05  23:34:14  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 	[90/10/31            rpd]
.\" 
.TH STACKS 1 6/18/90
.CM 4
.SH NAME
stacks \- display kernel stack usage information
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBstacks\fP [\fB-host\fP machine] [pset]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIstacks(1)\fR displays kernel stack usage information
for the specified processor set.  If no processor set
is specified, \fIstacks\fR uses the default processor set.
.PP
\fIstacks\fP interprets the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-host \fImachine\fR
Directs the inquiry to the \fImachid(1)\fR server running
on the specified machine.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ms(1), machid(1), host_stack_usage(2), processor_set_stack_usage(2).
