.\"
.\" $Id: mach_init.3,v 1.2 90/01/09 15:56:30 bww Exp $
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	mach_init.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  90/01/09  15:56:30  bww
.\" 	Canonicalized NAME section.
.\" 	[90/01/09  15:56:14  bww]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.1  89/12/28  14:39:51  bww
.\" 	Mach Release 2.5
.\" 	[89/12/28  14:39:00  bww]
.\" 
.\" 19-Nov-86  Mary Thompson (mrt) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Created.
.\"
.TH MACH_INIT 3 11/19/86
.SH NAME
.nf
task_self_ \- the port to which a task sends its kernel requests
task_data_ \- a port on which a task may receive messages
task_notify_ \- the port on which a task receives notify messages from the kernel
name_server_port \- the service port for the network name server
environment_port \- the service port for the task's environment manager
service_port \- the service port for the service server
mach_init_ports \- set of server ports initially handed to a task
mach_init_ports_count \- number of mach_init_ports
vm_page_size \- size of the virtual memory pages in bytes
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <mach_init.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mach_init.h
exports the standard system and server ports and
global variables to the user.

.I mach_init.c
is called before the main program is entered to intitalize
the exported values and to initialize any of the standard
server interfaces. The standard server interfaces are:
.I init_mach, init_msgn, init_netname
and
.I init_env_mgr.
The service server should only be called by other servers, so it 
is not initialized here for the general user.

.I mach_init 
also initialzes the value of
.I vm_page_size
which is the virtual memory page size in bytes. Kernel requests dealing
with virtual memory are always rounded up to virtual pages. Occasionally
a user needs to know how big this is.

.SH FILES
/usr/include/mach_init.h

.SH BUGS
.I task_data_
and 
.I task_notify_
are the same port at this time. The port is initially
unrestricted. In the future they will be two different
ports and 
.I task_notify
will be initially restricted. (i.e. will not be included
in the set of ports used by a receive with 
.I PORT_DEFAULT
set.)
