.\" Copyright (c) 1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
.\" DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS.  IN NO EVENT
.\" SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
.\" RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF
.\" CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
.\" CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Users of this software agree to return to Carnegie Mellon any
.\" improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie the
.\" rights to redistribute these changes.
.\"
.\" Export of this software is permitted only after complying with the
.\" regulations of the U.S. Deptartment of Commerce relating to the
.\" Export of Technical Data.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	getname.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.2  91/04/11  11:11:07  mrt
.\" 	Copied from libcs
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/12/12  15:51:31  mja
.\" 	Add copyright/disclaimer for distribution.
.\" 
.\" 13-Nov-86  Andi Swimmer (andi) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\" 	Revised for 4.3.
.\" 
.\" 27-Oct-84  Rudy Nedved (ern) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\" 	Add SEE ALSO section and made a few modifications.
.\" 
.\" 12-Feb-84  Lori Garrett at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH GETNAME 3 10/27/84
.CM 4
.SH "NAME"
getname \- returns the string login id of the entry in the password file whose numerical user id matches
.I
userid.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
char *getname(userid)
.br
.B
int userid;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
getname
searches through the password file for an entry whose numerical user id
matches the parameter 
.I
userid.
.sp
.I
getname 
continues searching until a match or the end of the password file
has been reached, building its own structure, 
.I
names, 
for storing the entries
of the password file that were examined.
.sp
If 
.I
getname
is called repeatedly, 
.I
names
is checked first for an entry matching
.I
userid. 
If none is found, entries from the password file are entered 
.I
names
as before. 
.sp
When the entire password file has been stored, only 
.I
names
will be checked
for an entry matching 
.I
userid.
.SH "FILES"
.nf
/etc/passwd             The password file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
passwd(5), getpwent(3), login(1), crypt(3), group(5)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
getname returns the pointer NULL when there is no entry in the password
file corresponding to userid.
