.\"
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS 
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie the
.\" rights to redistribute these changes.
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	snames.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.3  91/03/19  12:40:13  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/09/12  16:34:00  rpd
.\" 	Initial check-in.
.\" 	[90/09/12  15:53:35  rpd]
.\" 
.TH  SNAMES  1 6/18/90
.CM 4
.SH NAME
snames \- simple name server
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnames\fP [\fB-d\fP] [command args...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnames(1)\fR is a simple server implementing the netname name service.
It is like a netmsgserver which doesn't know about networks.
.PP
By default, \fIsnames\fR tries to become the primary name service
for the machine.  In this mode, it takes no arguments.
Otherwise, \fIsnames\fR becomes a secondary name service.
In this mode, it takes a command (often a shell) to run under
the secondary name service.
.PP
\fIsnames\fR interprets the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-d
Turns on debugging.  \fIsnames\fR will print informative messages
to stderr when clients register and lookup ports.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
netname(3), netmsgserver(8).
